Duty is sacrifice.
It eclipses all things...
even blood.
All men of honor
must pay its price.
The North owes a great duty
to the Seven Kingdoms...
one older than any oath.
Since the days of the First Men.
we have stood as guardians
against the cold and the dark.
Through its long tradition.
the Night's Watch cultivated its strength
from doomed men
who had their life
as their only possession.
But my ancestor. Torrhen Stark.
began a tradition by making an offering
at the onset of winter:
One in ten men from our household
was to be chosen to fortify the Watch.
This is not a sentence
but an honor.
A duty embraced by all
who serve the North.
Even by mine own kin.
The North must stand ready.
Winter is coming.
Coming?
What is this. then. that falls from
the skies and shivers my bones?
This is only a late summer snow.
my prince.
In winter. it will cover all you see.
And all memories of warmth
will be forgotten.
It pleases me to think that.
over a century ago.
our ancestors treated in this very place.
The Conqueror and the King in the North.
You. at least. have the mercy
not to threaten me with your dragon.
My prince.
My lord.
Surely the great Torrhen Stark
would have sooner died than bent the knee.
Unless he believed the Conqueror
could bring unity to the Seven Kingdoms.
- You are right in that.
- That unity is now threatened.
The realm will soon tear itself apart...
if men do not remember the oaths sworn
to King Viserys and to his rightful heir.
Starks do not forget their oaths.
my prince.
But you must know that my gaze
is forever torn between north and south.
In winter. my duty to the Wall
is even more dire
than the one I owe to King's Landing.
I need my men here.
Whilst your men guard
against wildlings and weather.
the Hightowers plan to usurp the throne.
If my mother is to defend her claim.
to hold the realm united.
she needs an army. War is coming.
To the whole of the realm. my lord.
We cannot wage it
without the support of the North.
My father brought King Jaehaerys
and Queen Alysanne to see the Wall.
His Grace stood at this very outlook
and watched as their dragons.
the greatest power in the world.
refused to cross it.
Do you think my ancestors built
a 700-foot wall of ice
to keep out snow and savages?
What does it keep out?
Death.
I have thousands of graybeards
who have already seen too many winters.
They are well-honed.
So they're old.
I can ready them to march at once.
If your graybeards can fight.
the queen will have them.
They will fight hard.
Like Northerners.
My lord.
A raven's arrived.
Urgent news from Dragonstone.
Gevi. Meleys.
Take your mount again.
We're flying out.
I alone patrol over a hundred miles
of open sea. endlessly.
to hold the blockade.
Meleys must gorge and rest. As must I.
- We're going to King's Landing.
- To what end?
Killing Vhagar.
I cannot face
that hoary. old bitch alone...
but with my dragon and yours together.
we can kill Vhagar and her rider.
Make it a son for a son.
- Was this the queen's command?
- The queen remains absent.
I should be at Harrenhal. bending knees.
but I must instead remain here
to wage her war.
Or perhaps more simply.
to await her return.
She has been gone for days.
Too long. She is exposed.
She is grieving.
The mother grieves
as the queen shirks her duties.
It was a raven that brought me news
of Laena's death.
I existed for weeks in torment...
refusing to believe what I'd been told.
It was only when I saw
my daughter's mortal remains
that I could begin to mourn her.
A raven has told Rhaenyra
that her son is dead.
- She needs to know it for certain.
- She was a fool to go alone.
- What if Aemond were to happen upon her?
- Then I would pity Aemond.
The queen was wise to recuse herself.
She has not acted on the vengeful impulse
that others might have.
If you'd have acted
when you had the chance...
Aegon's line would be extinguished...
and Luke would be alive.
Fly with me.
It is a command.
Would that you were the king.
- My lord.
My lord.
It's a marvel she was able to return
from the Stepstones at all.
Barely done but done.
Seven more ships put out to sea this morn
to fortify the blockade.
The Gullet is vast and we are not like
to have the numbers
to cover all that open water.
I must have my ship
back at sea. to lead the effort.
It'll be many weeks yet. I'd wager.
But I'll have a word with my brother...
to see what reinforcements
the shipwrights can muster.
The smithy delivered this earlier.
My lord?
I had this commissioned
for Prince Lucerys.
I was very sorry to hear about
your heir's death.
'Twas the blackest of treacheries.
Pardon. my lord.
If it'll please you. Much to do.
They tell me that you are the one
that dragged my body out of the sea.
It was only my duty.
I am indebted to you. Alyn.
- To attention. men!
- On your feet!
- Mind your posts.
- To your stations!
Keep your focus. men!
- Dragon!
- Arm the scorpion!
Approaching from the southeast!
Bring it around!
- Scorpion ready!
- Hold!
Hold!
Stand down! It's Vhagar.
- Stand down!
- Standing down!
Where is Jaehaerys?
Attending his lessons.
And those are where?
What do you need of him?
Taking him to the small council.
He'll be king one day.
He must begin his instruction.
What if he does not want to be king?
- Where is he?
- The library.
You must not interrupt his custom.
I'm afraid.
Don't be.
They'd be fools to come
with Vhagar protecting the city.
Not the dragons.
The rats.
The queen is an enduring mystery...
is she not?
There's a chill in the air.
Summer is well and truly through.
We are expected
at the small council. Your Grace.
We cannot...
again.
Yes. Your Grace.
If you wouldn't mind?
- Your Grace.
- Good day.
Jaehaerys must learn
the ways of the court
if he is to rule one day.
Up we go.
Good morrow. my lords!
Mother.
What news?
Our letters to the Vale and
to the North continue to go unanswered.
Cunts.
The Stormlands should be ours
after Prince Aemond's marriage pact
to the Lady Floris Baratheon.
I anticipate their sworn declaration.
My brother is raising
the strength of the West
to mass at the Golden Tooth. but we...
Ye... Thank you. my prince.
That's... That's very helpful.
My nephew. Lord Ormund. musters his forces
to sally forth from Oldtown.
They expect to march quickly.
meeting little resistance.
until they reach the Riverlands.
My letters to Rhaenyra.
has there been any answer?
- An apology for her dead son?
- None. Your Grace.
Between that
and their blockade of the Gullet.
we must presume that the princess
has refused the offered terms.
And that war is now inevitable.
Perhaps Your Grace might
lend his voice to our outreach...
Stop! Enough.
...in hopes that new terms
might be negotiated.
Release it at once.
Would someone please...?
Is the heir to the throne
bothering you. Tyland?
No. No. no. not in the least. Your Grace.
Because... I think he wants a ride.
- Your Grace.
- A ride?
A pony ride.
Wouldn't that be fun. Jaehaerys?
Should the Master of Coin
be your royal steed?
Your Grace.
There are important matters to discuss.
Despite Sir Tyland's interruptions.
Very well.
No time for amusements. Tyland.
Your Grace.
Off you go. Jaehaerys. Good boy.
Where were we?
Rhaenyra's blockade has placed
King's Landing under strain
and those pressures will multiply quickly.
We should have just killed her
when we had the chance.
Regrettably. the opportunity for surprise
has been lost.
And with it.
the chance to end this conflict quickly.
We must play the board before us.
If we are to break
the Sea Snake's blockade.
we will need to bolster both
the Lannister and Hightower navies.
We do have need for a new Master of Ships.
We could offer the title
to the young Lord Dalton Greyjoy.
- Aemond. What is your business here?
- The king summoned me.
You do not have a seat at this council.
Aemond is my closest blood
and our best sword. I welcome him.
The path to King's Landing
is through the Riverlands.
We must establish a toehold there.
at Harrenhal.
The Riverlords
will either declare for me.
or they will meet Vhagar
and Sunfyre together.
And we can burn the blockade
while we're at it.
Rhaenyra has dragons as well.
- Mine are bigger.
- If we loose the dragons to war.
there will be no calling them back.
We must proceed cautiously.
Fat. old Lord Tully will either
raise my banner or see his burn.
We should fly to Riverrun.
You are the king. Your Grace.
You must not put yourself at risk.
And Vhagar is needed here.
to deter Rhaenyra from attacking
in retribution for the death of her son.
Errors were made in the hours
following King Viserys's death.
We mustn't compound them.
You've already demonstrated
your might. Your Grace.
We must now favor patience and restraint.
I send ravens by the hour.
Many and more houses
will declare for you in time.
History and precedent
will come to your side.
- Good morrow. Your Grace.
- Good morrow. Lord Larys.
I had come earlier to have a word
before the small council convened.
but your handmaiden said
that you were indisposed?
What is it you wish to discuss?
I have completed questioning
the whole of the castle staff.
They produced rather interesting details.
but I am satisfied I have exposed
all who betrayed our trust.
And what of them?
They no longer breathe our air.
I have chosen your new staff personally.
Just... Give me that.
Your Grace?
Just leave me.
Just... Just leave me.
- It's a dragon wing!
- Let's have a look!
- It's a wing.
- Who cares what it is.
D rag o n!
All hail King Aegon!
Aegon the Magnanimous.
Second of His Name.
King of the Andals. and the Rhoynar.
and the First Men.
Lord of the Seven Kingdoms
and Protector of the Realm.
Hail King Aegon!
"The Magnanimous"?
Your Grace.
Let's have the first petition.
my good Lord Hand.
Good morrow. my. uh. Your Grace.
It's all right.
There's no reason to be nervous.
What's your name?
Jerard. Your Grace.
Good morrow. Jerard.
And how might your king be of service?
'Tis my flock.
A tenth of them taken by...
the Crown on the cusp of winter.
- If I'd had the time to plan. perhaps...
- We should return them.
Your Grace?
You need your goats
for the winter. don't you?
- Sheep. Your Grace.
- Sheep. even better.
I shall make your flock of sheep whole.
We already made a promise
to all the Crownlands
that a tithing of livestock
would be necessary to sustain the dragons
for their increased activity
and. pray not. eventual fighting.
Right. Right.
Perhaps we could just return his sheep?
He came all this way.
If you return one herder's sheep.
Your Grace.
you'll soon find them all at the foot
of your throne expecting the same.
They won't know.
When the king speaks. Your Grace.
all hear it.
After further thought.
I have decided
that I cannot restore your sheep.
If war were to break out.
my dragons will require feed.
- Bring the next.
- But...
Salts always run scarce
on the road to winter. Your Grace.
We rely on ships from Essos
for our supply.
But now. with a blockade in place
and war threatening...
That treasonous blockade won't last long.
I plan to send Vhagar to burn it to ash.
Bring the next.
Hugh. Your Grace.
The smiths are all proud
to support Your Grace against Rhaenyra.
- But?
- But...
iron costs have grown.
A lone scorpion takes weeks to build.
To put it simply. we are struggling.
If we could but have the Crown's coin
before we started work.
it would bring great relief.
Not just to me
but to all the smiths serving your cause.
You shall be paid and paid well.
My army cannot win a war
without your weapons.
You should continue their making.
Our victory depends
on the efforts of the smallfolk.
You have my most sincere gratitude.
Your Grace.
I'll hear the next petition.
Your Grace. it filled my heart
to see you on the Iron Throne.
I was only a boy when Jaehaerys
last graced the seat.
but you brought forth memories of him.
You have such a deft touch with
the smallfolk. just as your father did.
Thank you. my lord.
I wonder. do you have a moment
for a quiet word?
It is the Hand's wont
to keep a firm grip on things.
Mm.
He controlled your father the same way.
Viserys had a certain reputation
as being pliable.
I am aware.
I would think. as we find ourselves
standing within a hair's breadth of war.
that you would wish
to be viewed differently.
How?
Otto Hightower...
was your father's Hand. Your Grace.
Daughter.
I requested an audience hours ago.
There were many petitions.
I find myself wondering...
do we pursue the same end?
I must admit. there are days
where I myself can't be sure.
I shall tell you mine.
- It's victory.
- And how would you define victory?
Rhaenyra bending the knee
and Aegon sitting the Iron Throne
in peace.
As Viserys wished.
If that's how you describe it.
then we are aligned.
- Then be my ally.
- I am.
An ally would not repeatedly cut my legs
from beneath me at that table of men.
- I sit there and I feel your anger.
- Frustration.
These critical days since
Viserys's passing haven't gone to plan.
That's not my fault.
My sons both see you as the great example.
The Hand to three kings.
Aegon is ever eager to prove himself.
and Aemond...
Aemond is angry.
Rhaenyra's son took his eye
and was never punished for it.
- What he did. however vicious...
- The caprice of youth.
I could only hope.
Aemond erred.
But he is fiercely loyal.
He wishes to please.
And Aegon still heeds me.
In private. at least.
But if you undermine my voice.
both those boys will grow deaf to it.
I hadn't seen it that way.
We only need to mind Aegon
until the novelty of rule is spent.
Once he tires of it.
you and I can steer our cause to victory.
A fine strategy. daughter.
But you must accept that the path
to victory now is one of violence.
I know it.
But that does not mean it must be wanton.
No.
Prepare to be boarded!
Boarding party. ready!
Borders inbound!
By the order
of Lord Corlys Velaryon!
Search the hold for stowaways!
Hey! You! What are these?
You.
When last we met. there were two of you.
The White Worm.
Did you think
I would wither in your absence?
I did not think
you would flower a traitor.
You speak of highborn games.
I am common-born.
How long have you been selling secrets
to Otto Hightower?
As long as he had gold to pay for them.
Who sent you fleeing from King's Landing
in such disrepair. hm?
You put Aegon on the throne.
That was the Hightowers' conspiracy.
I merely profited
from knowing Aegon's movements.
But you delivered him.
He would have returned home eventually
for gold and for respite.
as he always does. I simply...
- Simply sped the business along.
- Business that ended
with the theft of the queen's throne
and the murder of her son.
You only blame me because
your true enemies are out of reach.
My arrangement with the Hand
was purely transactional.
I held no loyalty to him.
Certainly do not now.
Otto Hightower was to me
as I am to your noble ilk:
Fodder to be cast off.
- What else do you know of him? His plans?
- Little and less.
I possess nothing of value to you. Daemon.
Have her moved to the cells.
She is to be treated
as a traitor to the crown.
Forgive me. my prince.
but the lady speaks the truth.
- She was no agent of the Hightowers.
- What is it to you?
A matter of honor.
Was it honor
that made you stand by and watch
as the Hightowers usurped the throne?
You and your traitorous twin?
No. my prince.
I'm shamed by it.
That's why I abandoned the Kingsguard
and my brother. and came here.
I don't care.
Aegon was in your grasp.
You should have killed him yourself.
Arryk and I were named to the Kingsguard
at just 8 and 10.
And we swore the same oath:
To defend the whole of the royal family.
So. what were we to do
when they turned against one another?
Queen Rhaenyra Targaryen.
the First of Her Name.
Queen of the Andals.
and the Rhoynar. and the First Men.
Lady of the Seven Kingdoms
and Protector of the Realm.
Did you find what you needed?
Your council stands at the ready.
Your Grace.
I will fly to Harrenhal at your command
and set our toehold in the Riverlands.
Your Grace. my lord husband's blockade
of the Gullet moves into place.
All seaborne travel and trade
to King's Landing will soon be cut off.
I want Aemond Targaryen.
In your years as a merchant of gossip.
you surely accumulated spies
within the Red Keep.
Servants who knew the comings and goings.
Scheme with someone else. Daemon.
I was once in your thrall. But no longer.
A transaction. then.
Your knowledge
in exchange for your freedom.
Your Grace.
Lady Jeyne Arryn has pledged her support
in exchange for a dragon
to guard the Vale.
And Lord Cregan Stark...
has promised 2000 men.
Alyrie Florent.
Viserys Targaryen.
Lucerys Velaryon.
A tribute.
Commander?
Never gone for long.
I'm told you bear a mislike
for the Hightowers.
Fuck the Hightowers.
Keep walking.
Don't make trouble.
The White Worm said
you're one of Aegon's ratcatchers.
You must be busy.
That castle positively
crawls with them now.
I heard the White Worm were dead.
Her ghost told me
you were a betting man. Fighting pits?
Dogs.
And bones.
How deep are your debts?
I was also given to understand you possess
a unique knowledge of the Red Keep.
Maegor's tunnels.
Great big rat's nest. it is.
I know them better
than the shape of my own cock.
This is my friend.
Tonight. he's going to be your friend.
You're to find and slay
the Prince Aemond Targaryen.
He has silver hair and one eye.
He should be easy enough to find.
But I understand
he's quite good in a fight.
You'll want to take caution.
That's one half.
You'll get the other when it's done.
All right.
But what if we can't find him?
We've wasted precious days
in this war of quills and ravens.
Words are wind.
You should be leading the van.
and I should be flying cover on Vhagar.
No castle would dare to raise
Rhaenyra's banner against us.
We would bring the whole of the Crownlands
to heel in weeks.
Mayhaps we could petition the king.
privately. to send us out.
Rosby and Stokeworth.
small castles
right in the shadow of King's Landing.
- They would not want us for enemies.
- We could add their levies to our own...
our host growing as we advance.
Aye. it is a canny scheme.
But moot.
My brother is hostage
to my grandsire and mother.
They tell him that a war of dragons
can yet be avoided.
It is inevitable. They must see that.
Otto fears to upset the order of things.
And Alicent is simply...
angry.
- Angry?
- She blames me for starting this war.
After she plotted with my father's council
to usurp his throne.
Her Grace speaks with two tongues.
She has a gentle heart.
And Rhaenyra is a cunning spider.
Long ago. she drew Alicent into her web.
Intoxicated her.
It is not your mother's fault.
She holds love for our enemy.
That makes her a fool.
Lord Hand.
Return to your post. Lord Commander.
I must have a word with the prince.
It would concern me. grandson.
if plans were being considered
beyond the ears of your king and his Hand.
You've a zeal to act. I understand.
I was young once myself.
I only wish to serve my king and my house.
You and Vhagar
are the greatest single power
in the realm.
If it wasn't obvious before.
it certainly is now.
But there are many pieces at play here.
Some of which you can't yet see.
I promise you. Aemond. you will have
all the vengeance that you seek.
but you must keep a grip on your impulses.
We both know that your brother cannot.
All right.
Take that.
Bring the dog.
I need to be a symbol for
the smallfolk. as well as the nobility.
- Wait.
- You could always be
Aegon the Strong.
- My nephew's already taken that one.
- Which would Your Grace prefer?
- To be loved or feared?
- It's the king.
I need to be both.
My mother and grandsire mind me
like some helpless duckling.
Oh. but you're the king.
Who gives a shit what they say?
My brother at least knows his place.
He's as loyal as a hound.
I can set him and his dragon
on my foes at will.
- Keep your eyes down.
- I need a style that demonstrates power
and commands respect.
No one knows what "magnaminous" means.
You could be
Aegon the Generous. then.
- That would charm the smallfolk.
- I like that.
- Is there more strong wine?
- Aegon the Dragonheart.
Better.
- Aegon the Dragoncock.
- Yes!
Yes! The untamable beast!
- How do we get upstairs?
- The royals live up there.
- Right.
- Well. it's off-limits. it is.
Different group of ratcatchers
work the upstairs.
If we're to kill a royal fucking prince.
where do you think we're gonna find him?
I got you in the castle.
I thought the rest was your bit.
I could end you right here.
take the rest of the gold meself.
I know a way upstairs.
I just don't know my way round.
Show me.
Fuck off!
This way.
The royals live on this level.
No one's here.
We need to keep looking.
I told you.
I'm not supposed to be up here.
Did you not hear the prince?
No head. no gold.
- Set a trap.
- Huh?
- For appearances.
- Oh.
I'll search the next room.
For the rats.
Stay still.
Who the fuck is she?
She's the queen. she is.
"A son for a son." he said.
Does she look like a fucking son to you?
Over there.
We need to get our head and get out.
Shh.
They both look the same.
- Which one's the boy?
- Maybe that one.
- No...
- Well. look for a cock.
The mother knows.
Do anything but what I ask
and I'll bleed the whole lot of you.
Shh.
Which?
I have a necklace.
It's of great value.
That's not a son.
N...
Wait.
It's the other one. She's not gonna
give up the king's heir that easy.
No.
She's telling true.
Hold him down.
No...
Helaena.
What's happened?
They killed the boy.